stand at the front of your mat take a deep
breath in let the power of your breath fill
your whole body and being exhale and be fully
present in this moment we are so blessed the
food we eat the water we drink the air we breathe
our earth provides so many gifts for our pleasure
and survival let's commit to healing ourselves
and this planet let's nurture our body nourish
our souls give back to the earth and live
dedicated to the connection that unites us all
you're going to find your way out onto
your backs separate your feet mats width
apart and let your knees drop inward
and place your palms on to your belly
relax your whole body completely
softening your eyes your mouth and
any tension in the shoulders continue
to breathe deep inhaling and exhaling
and then squeeze your knees into your
chest I'm going to cross your right
leg over the left and drop your knees
over to the left side reach your right
arm out and look towards the right arm
and inhale deeply and exhale relax that
right shoulder down onto the floor
close your eyes and simply breathe
squeeze both knees into your chest let's switch
sides cross your left leg over the right drop
your knees to the right reach your left arm out
get a really good stretch through your spine as
you look towards your left hand and take a
deep breath in and exhale it out completely
squeeze both knees back into your chest
gonna place a sole of the left
foot onto the floor grab hold of
the right foot and bring it upward
towards the ceiling slowly begin to
pull your right thigh downward towards
the floor or the ribcage and breathe
squeeze your right knee into your
chest place the foot on the floor
and switch sides left knee in grab
the left foot inhale the left foot
to the ceiling exhale pull your
left thigh down keep inhaling
and exhaling pulling the leg closer
towards the floor without bouncing
and then squeeze the knee in squeeze both knees
in roll to your right side and
come up into a seated position
you're going to sit up as tall as you can place
your wrists onto your knees and close your eyes
ground your sit bones into the floor lengthen the
spine and take some very deep breaths in and out
focusing on the quality and
the length of each inhale
and exhale continue breathing deep
and then place your palms into namaste we ask
may this practice cleanse and purify so that
we can live every moment fully present and
aware may we release all the ways in which
we keep ourselves disconnected from our
bodies each other and the earth and open
to the knowing that we are all one left
hand onto the right knee bring the right
hand behind you inhale lengthen the spine
and exhale twist look out over the right
shoulder and breathe deeply as you revolve
the spine exhale face forward switch sides
right hand on the left knee left hand behind you
inhale lift your chest exhale and twist breathe
and face forward place the soles of the
feet on the floor knees are bent cross
your left arm in front right hand behind
the inhale lift exhale twist breathe
exhale face forward switch sides
right forearm crosses left hand
behind you inhale lengthen exhale and twist
exhale face forward you're going to come out
onto all fours shoulders over the wrists knees
hips width apart press into the palms and
inhale look up an arch but the shoulders
pull down the back and exhale round tucking
in your chin and drawing the tailbone down
link movement with breath so you're gonna
inhale look up and arch exhale and round
inhale look up and arch curl your toes under
pressing into your palms stretch back into
downward facing dog either keeping the knees
bent or straightening the legs make sure that the
foundation is specific bone under the index finger
presses down shoulders roll open heels descend
and walk your feet to your hands inhale look up
and lengthen hands onto your hips as you exhale
inhale come all the way up to standing come into
Tadasana big toes and ankles together ground your
legs tailbone in front ribs soft and breathe
place your palms into namaste inhale arms reach
exhale fold all the way forward bending your knees
only if you need to inhale lengthen
the spine forward fold on your exhale
and inhale come on up all the way pressing
the legs straight as the arms reach and
exhale palms right at the heart focus on
the breath inhale arms reach exhale fold
all the way forward keep your legs straight
if you can inhale lengthen the spine forward
exhale folds inhale come on up all the
way exhale palms right at the heart
Sun salutes a inhale arms reach exhale fold all
the way forward hands down at the floor inhale
lengthen exhale step back top of a push-up
hold here and breathe then put your knees on
the floor toes away and lower slow inhale come
into Cobra really engage your legs press the
elbows in and the shoulders back melt your
chest towards your heart as the shoulders
pull away and exhale chest down curl your toes
under and press back into downward facing dog
check your wrists extend and lift your hips
off the shoulders and let your heels come
downward towards the floor breathe walk your
feet to your hands inhale look up exhale folds
inhale come up to stand push into the feet
arms reach exhale palms right at the heart
inhale arms reach exhale fold
inhale lengthen exhale step back
top of a push-up knees down toes
back lower inhale Cobra and exhale
downward facing dog and breathe
walk your feet to your hands inhale look up
and lengthen exhale and fold inhale come up
all the way arms reach exhale and palms right
at the heart inhale arms reach exhale fold
inhale lengthen exhale step back top of
a push-up either put your knees on the
floor or lower chaturanga dandasana inhale
upward-facing dog hold press into the pumps
lift the inner thighs draw the shoulders back
look up and exhale downward facing dog breathe
step your right foot forwards down the ball the
back foot come up onto the fingertips look forward
keep the back leg firm and strong and squeeze your
hips down take a deep breath in exhale put your
left knee down on to the floor point your toes
away place both hands on to your right knee you're
going to straighten the right leg just a little
bit and square off your hips then slowly begin to
bend that knee again without arching the back and
inhale arms reach over your head hold and breathe
exhale both hands down you're gonna
step back into downward-facing dog
left foot forwards down the ball
the right foot stay up onto the
fingertips sternum forward back
legs straight and strong breathe
but your right knee on the floor point
your toes away both hands onto the left
knee straighten the left leg a little bit as
you square off the hips keeping that tailbone
in bend that left knee a little deeper then
inhale bring your arms up over your head
exhale both hands down onto
the floor curl the back toes
under and step back into downward facing dog
now from here you're going to step your
right foot way between your hands turn
your back foot flat pressing into both
feet bring your hands onto your hips
preparing for warrior 1 square off
the hips take the tailbone in bend
the knee and inhale bring both arms
up over your head look up and breathe
exhale both hands down and step back
into downward-facing dog switch sides
left foot forward back foot flat pressing
into the feet first bring your hands onto
your hips stabilize the pose organize
the pelvis by rotating that right hip
forward bend the left knee deeper
inhale arms reach hold and breathe
exhale both hands down and step back into
downward facing dog stretch it way back
and walk your feet to your hands inhale look
up exhale fold chair position bend your knees
and drop your hips and you're going to
inhale bring both arms up over your head
sinking your hips just a little
bit lower take the tail bone away
from the kidneys exhale to stand and
palms right at the heart take a breath
you're going to step open to your side
feet wide about five feet apart turn
your right foot out and your left toes
in preparing for triangle pose keeping
bold legs straight you're going to inhale the
arms are going to come out to the sides hinge
it your right hip right hand on to the
shin or the ankle or if you need to use
a block to the side of the foot that's
fine bring that left arm up and breathe
ground lengthen energize
look down and inhale to stand turn the right
foot in the left foot out establish the pose
keeping the legs straight inhale exhale
lengthen through the left side of the
body the hand on the shin or ankle right
arms straight up to the ceiling try to
find length and space along the left side of
the body both shoulders pulling down the back
energize the upper arm look down inhale
to stand left foot turns in hands onto
the hips take a breath spin your right foot out
your left foot in make sure your heel to arch
inhale arms out to the sides and exhale come
into warrior two push firmly into the outside
edge of that left foot as you squeeze your
right knee open keep your face soft inhale
straighten the leg turn the right foot
in left foot out deep breath in exhale
and bend bone under the left big toe press
it down squeeze the left knee open breathe
straighten the left leg turn the left foot in
hands on to the hips take another deep breath
and then arms out to the sides spin your right
foot out your left foot in bend your right knee
and balance the right forearm on the thigh
left hand to the hip inhale bring your left
arm out over the ear keep the inner ankle of your
left foot lifted so you don't collapse into the
ankle or the knee joint inhale come back into
warrior two then straighten the leg and switch
sides left foot turns out right foot in deep
breath in exhale bend the knee balance the left
forearm right hand on to the hip hold here as you
squeeze that left knee open then reach the right
arm out over the right ear lengthening through
the whole right side of your body breathe deep
inhale come on up slowly straighten the leg
turn your left foot in hands on to the hips
inhale lift your chest and exhale fold put
your fingertips onto the floor you're just
going to simply inhale lengthen the
chest and you may need to stay here
or if you can gonna bend your elbows
grab hold of the big toes and again
you're going to look forward and lengthen
and exhale top of the head down and breathe
inhale look up you're going to bring your
fingertips all the way together so your
thumbs are touching put your right hand onto
your lower back squaring off the hips inhale
open the right chest towards the ceiling then
bring your right arm straight up both shoulders
pulling down the back and breathe exhale the
right hand down put your left hand onto your
lower back keep the hips level then inhale
open your left chest twisting in the middle
of the spine you bring your left arm straight
upward look to the left arm if you can if it
hurts the neck you look down exhale both
hands down onto the floor you're going to
separate the hands and then inhale look up
exhale and fold walk your hands between your
legs if it's possible press the elbows in lift
the shoulders away from the neck and breathe
inhale look up
hands on to the hips as you
exhale and then inhale to stand
turn your right foot out step your back foot in
a little bit square off the hips take a very deep
breath in exhale and fold putting both hands
onto the floor preparing for twisting triangle
make sure your heel to heel the right leg is
straight and you're going to inhale lengthen
the spine and bring your right arm straight up
to the ceiling you can always put your left hand
on to a block but make sure you stay up on to
your fingertips pull the sternum forward as that
right hip pulls back then exhale both hands down
hands on to the hips inhale to stand switch sides
make sure your heel to heel hips aligned
inhale and exhale put your hands on to the
floor square off the hips again lengthen through
the left side of the body then keeping the right
fingertips on to the floor bring your left arm
straight upward and breathe press firmly into
the feet as a thighs lift sternum pulling
forward as the shoulders pull down the back
both hands down as you exhale and then hands
onto the hips inhale to stand turn your left
foot in palms into namaste take a deep breath in
and then exhale step to the front of the mat old
Center and inhale arms reach exhale fold
all the way forward inhale lengthen the
spine and exhale step back top of a push-up
and lower down chaturanga dandasana inhale
upward-facing dog open the heart and exhale
downward facing dog step your right foot
forward and stay on the ball of the back
foot keep your left fingertips down onto
the floor and then inhale bring your right
arm up pull the heart forward and breathe
exhale both hands down step back into push-up
position and lower inhale upward facing dog
exhale downward facing dog step your left
foot forward stay on the ball of the back
foot stay on to your right fingertips and
inhale the left arm straight up opening the
chest squeeze the hips down as you pull
the sternum long and breathe exhale both
hands down step back into push-up position
and lower inhale press into upward facing
dog and exhale downward facing dog take
a very deep breath as you stretch it back
and then come down onto your knees
sit your butt back onto your heels
lift your spine then you're going to
shift your weights beside and we're
going to move towards half navasana
so soles the feet on the floor
bring your fingertips to the ground and
lift your feet up your feet and knees on
the same line extend your arms alongside
the shins and breathe bring your feet back
to the floor inhale lift your chest exhale
it out and let's do this again so balancing
on your sit bones extend the arms alongside
the shins and then straighten your legs for
full boat pose if possible breathe come
back into half boat and then put the feet
on the floor lift your spine and roll all
the way out onto the floor take a breath
separate the feet hips width apart knees
are bent inhale lift your hips as you come
into Bridge you're going to interlace
your fingers underneath you press the
forearms down push into the feet and press
the ribcage towards the jaw and breathe
exhale lower it all the way
down separate your feet mats
width apart let the knees drop in take a breath
do this again separate the feet hips-width apart
this time grab your heels or your ankles pushing
into the feet inhale lift your hips get your
shoulders underneath you and press down and
lift your chest towards your jaw and breathe
exhale lower it all the way down separate the
feet let the knees drop in and breathe one
more time bring your feet closer together
hips width apart press down come up onto the
balls of the feet and support your lower back
with your hands elbows and shoulders on the
same line then press your heels back downward
towards the floor breathe deeply as the tailbone
lengthens towards the underbelly of your knees
and release it squeeze your knees into your
chest and take a very deep breath in and as
you exhale you're gonna drop your knees over
to your left and reach the right arm out look
towards the right hand flex your feet lift
your shins up off the floor arch your back
and draw the right shoulder down onto the
ground notice how your body feels squeeze
both knees into your chest drop your knees
over to the right and reach the left arm
out flex your feet and lift the shins up
off the floor arch your back and then let
your left shoulder pull down onto the ground
as you bring your spine back into balance
squeeze both knees into your chest
cross your right ankle above your left knee
reach between and clasp hold by the back of
the thigh or the front of the shin allow
your right knee to draw forward as your
left knee pulls in relax your mouth
and your eyes focus on the sensation
switch sides cross your left ankle above the
right knee reach between and grab hold gently
pull your right knee in and breathe releasing
the leg squeeze both knees back into your chest
take a very deep breath in exhale it out you're
gonna roll to your side and sit on up you're
gonna come into staff pose so extend your legs
straight out in front of you you're gonna reach
underneath your buttocks and pull the flesh
back and then put your hands alongside your
hips hold here with a long spine and take a
deep breath in bending your right knee place
the right foot on to the floor to the inside
of the thigh bring your left hand across the
right shin and the right hand behind you and then
look out towards the right shoulder and breathe
exhale face forward extend the right
leg forward and switch sides left foot
down right arm crosses in front left arm
behind you inhale lift exhale and twist
exhale face forward extend that left leg
forward come back into staff pose deep
breath in then exhale place the right
foot to the inside of the left thigh
put both hands on to the floor on either side
of your left leg inhale lengthen hold here as
you exhale keep the spine long and only if
you have more flexibility in that left leg
and you begin to walk your hands forward and
fold into the straight left leg and breathe
inhale come on up and switch sides put your
left foot to the inside of the thigh both
hands on to the floor inhale lengthen walk
your hands forward keeping the integrity
of the spine and only if you have more
flexibility you want to walk your hands
forward and fold into your right leg grabbing
whatever you can close your eyes and breathe
inhale come on up come back into staff pose
lifting and lengthening the spine and then
you're going to come into baddha konasana so
bring the soles of the feet together and let
the knees drop open hold on to the feet and roll
the feet open hold here for a moment with a spine
nice and straight the hips relaxing take another
deep breath in and then as you exhale just come
partway hold listen to your body only go deeper
if it feels appropriate inhale come up bring the
knees together extend both legs straight out in
front of you inhale arms reach exhale and fold
inhale lengthen exhale and if it's possible you're
going to walk your hands forward grab the feet
lengthen the sternum fold and close
your eyes be absolutely present
inhale come on up
and from here and a roll all the way
out one vertebra at a time and find
your way into shavasana into resting
pose extend your legs away from the
lumbar spine and draw the shoulders
away from the neck close your eyes
relax your mouth
soften the shoulders
the arms
your hands
relax your chest and any tension in your belly
allowing all of your systems to
come back into balance into harmony
grounded soft each exhale drawing you down
into the earth beneath you relax your hips
your thighs
energy draining softening the feet home toes
but everything go in this
moment let it all go and rest
and putting your attention back to
your breath inhale and then reach
your arms up over your head and get a good
stretch bring yourself back into the space
squeeze your knees into your chest I'm going
to roll to your right side and sit on up
and come into a cross-legged position sitting up
as tall as you can risk onto your knees breathe
yoga releases the physical and emotional
tensions and toxins so that we can sit in
meditation for longer periods of time without
distraction or discomfort sitting being reminds
us that beyond the body in the vast landscape of
our imagination and mind there exists a knowing
that calls us home to the truth of our soul we
are all connected heaven and earth mind and body
you and I we cleanse the resistance the fear
the anger the grief so that we can be present
to the truth within and know that we are one
place your palms into namaste together we give
thanks for all the gifts in our life for the
food that we eat the air that we breathe and
this remarkable planet that supports and
sustains us we ask for the mindfulness to
make healthier and more conscious choices and
to continue to purify ourselves of the tension
toxins and perceptions that no longer serve our
health or happiness may our hearts open to know
love and may that love guide us into the depths
of our deepest joy may that joy be peace and may
this peace unite the essence of each moment
every breath and all beings as one namaste